Predictive Analytics for Customer Retention
This repository contains a web application that predicts customer churn using a pre-trained neural network model and a scaler. The application is built with Flask for the backend and a simple HTML/Bootstrap front end for user interaction. It is designed to help businesses proactively identify customers who are likely to churn, enabling targeted actions to improve retention.

Features
Interactive Form
Users can enter customer metrics such as Credit Score, Age, Tenure, Balance, Estimated Salary, Country, and Gender via a modern, responsive UI.

Real-Time Prediction
The backend uses a pre-trained model (nueral-network.pkl) and scaler (scalar.pkl) to process the input data and predict whether a customer is likely to churn.

Clean & Responsive Design
The front end is styled with Bootstrap, ensuring a professional look across various devices.

Easy Integration
With Flask as the backend, the application provides a simple API endpoint for predictions, making it easy to integrate with other systems or extend further.

Customizable and Extendable
The modular design allows for easy updates or replacements of the model and scaler, as well as enhancements to the UI for additional functionality.

Installation and Usage
Clone the Repository
Open your terminal and run:
git clone https://github.com/ranu060/Predictive-Analytics-for-Customer-Retention.git
cd Predictive-Analytics-for-Customer-Retention

Create a Virtual Environment (Optional but Recommended)
python -m venv venv

Activate the virtual environment:

Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

macOS/Linux: source venv/bin/activate

Install Dependencies
Make sure you have Python installed. Then install the required Python packages:
pip install flask joblib numpy

(Install any additional libraries as needed.)

Run the Flask Server
From the repository folder, start the Flask app:
python app.py

Once the server is running, open your browser and navigate to:
http://127.0.0.1:5000/
to access the application.

Make a Prediction
Fill in the form with the appropriate customer details and click "Predict Churn". The result and confidence percentage will be displayed on the page.

Contribution
Contributions are welcome! If you have ideas for improvements or new features, please fork this repository and submit a pull request. For issues or suggestions, open an issue on GitHub.

License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more details.